This is the story of the development of my linux powered text to speech server.
To kick of the project I installed Linux Mint 17 Cinnamon in virtual box.
I then decided to play around with festival a text to speech synthesiser and make a shell script that takes a text file and outputs a wav file.
Then I played around with using festivals built in server mode but decided it wouldn't work.
I did some research and decided that an ssh connection would work for the task at hand.
I configured a ssh server on my virtua l machine and connected to it locally.
When I tried to connect to the virtual server from my windows machine on the same network I was having some problems.
After some research I realized it was the network settings in virtual box. After changes to network settings the problems were eliminated.
The next problem I faced was deciding how to connect with a .bat and how to transfer the files.
To solve these problems I downloaded pscp a secure copy protocal client for windows which can be controlled through cmd as well as 
plink a way to control ssh from windows command prompt.
I proceded to write a batch file that connects to the virtual server automatically and does all the necessary tasks.
The next step in the process is to install ubuntu server 14.04 on an old hp laptop.
After, the first install I realized that the networking was not configured correctly so to fix this I had to reinstall the operating system.
This fixed the problem and I installed the following packages festival, a default voice in festival, and an ssh server.
Finally, I configured my clients and the ssh server.
And that is the story of my audio conversion server.
But it wasn't over I wasn't happy with the audio quality and I started the hunt for the highest quality audio I could get for free.
My sister and I listened to the voices in espeak another tts protocal and decided they were worse than what we had.
I thought that the higher quality voices you can download for festival would work but my sister and I liked the voice I already have.
Then SVOX pico showed up and I liked the default voice but couldn't get it to read from a text file so, I was about to give up on it.
Right when I was about to quit I came upon a workaround so now I can use the default voice for pico and it works great. 
But, it still isn't perfect so I think I am going to look into a web tts that google has.